No.
Everyone got to come to this lecture.
And here you can easily see that I have a problem open in front of me.
And you can also see the title of the problem, which is as stupid as it was out in June of Computing
Olympiad of 2014.
And the problem is the best problem to begin with for the anime programming scene, when we will be
discussing this problem.
And before moving forward, I would strongly suggest that you pause the video, you try this problem
yourself.
So here's is a problem statement and the right you can see the is an example input this in understand
the problem before I explain it and.
Right this input and just see what output you get.
Try different approaches that.
Uh.
Okay.
So what I suggested.
Right.
And different greedy approaches to this.
Always a very thin line between and B being greedy.
Right.
Because for every dynamic programming problem we try to, uh, we try to think of it in a greedy manner.
Like, if we do this first, then there's.
But in that way we can have the minimum answers, so we will not go here with it with the enemy programming
it this posit that it always.
Dryer approaches whatever you can.
And then, of course, I'll be explaining the dynamic programming approaches.
We'll see how to approach this problem and what other examples are over here.
Right.
Also, we'll see how, how and why this solution does not work.
So I just take an example of one solution that you all might also be thinking about, most probably,
and then we'll discuss Vivobook will.
So I hope you have gone through the problem and try to solve it once.
Okay.
Let me reiterate once vote in ICAO school, all students have to participate regularly in secret.
This is something kind of a duty.
Right.
So these are different s who bw activity each day and.
Each activity has its own duration.
Schedule for the next term has been announced, including information or the number of minutes taken
by each activity, and the goal has been designated coordinator school, whose task is to assign duties
to students, including himself.
So see, there's a there's a lot of things going on, but none of them is important.
The important part is just going to get none of this.
The first paragraph is important.
So the school rules say that no students can go three days in a row without any attributable to duty.
Basically a.
If you are doing as you read, you can't go three days in a row without doing eight.
But.
Nicole wants to find an assignment or a super w duty for himself.
That minimizes the number of minute he spends overall on the day.
Basically.
Let's say we have these ten days later.
We have these ten consecutive days.
Let's when and I cannot go three days without a duty rate to basically in every three window.
In every three window I have to pick up.
At least one.
Number eight out of these.
I hope you understand this, but that means Indian.
Let's see if I am if I am doing the first day duty and let's say I'm doing the this duty and then this
duty, I was there to do some of the duty here to do some other duties, three plus two plus T, which
is it?
Eight.
But this violates the condition.
Which condition?
This condition that is.
That Uno student can go three days in a row without any due delay.
That means here we can see the second day.
I did not do the duty.
In the third day I did not do.
I did not go for the duty.
And the fourth day also I did not go for other duty.
So here I can see that I had three consecutive days in which I did not go for their duty.
Well, this is not allowed eight.
So in every three window you have to pick at least one element.
Basically, it tries to say this that there can be no window of size greater than equal to three in
which you have not picked up the duty.
Well, I hope you understand this problem.
So let's approach it.
Approach it.
Let's say.
And what is the solution that I can apply?
And before moving forward, also, let's find out the answer for this particular input.
Some of you might have already done that.
Right?
So a.
Cool.
Let's approach, let's say a little design approach that I see I'm just discussing normally.
That approach is very simple.
Let's say for the first window, let's pick up the minimum element.
So what's the minimum element you want?
So let's I've picked up one and then I know I have picked up this one.
That means in the next window after that one, let's pick up the minimum element again is going to be
the best, best quality approach rate.
Again, I picked up one now.
I picked up these two runs.
Now the next is in the next window.
Again, pick up the menu element.
So here it is.
But why am I going over the next window of safety?
Because I have to pick up at least one element.
So instead of picking two elements, because that would certainly increase my sum, I'm just going to
pick up an element.
Well, again, I've got this one.
And in the next window of this one, what I'll do is I'll again pick up the minimum element that is
went well.
So what his answer here goes as I can easily see if I pick up these four ones.
One, two, three and four.
There is no window of size three or greater than three, which is not picked.
So this is two doing two.
Of course, this is the final answer of the problem, which is four.
So here we can see that this greedy approach works.
What was the approach?
Pick up the minimum element from the when first window of size three.
Right.
Let's I picked up the minimum element.
And just after that minimum element, I began as the window of say, stripping the minimum again, the
process so that it is in full.
So here we can see that the approach worked.
In that case, the approach vote.
But what if, what if let's make, let's make a case where it doesn't work.
And then I'll tell you how to distinguish between greedy and paid.
What's my thought process on being really well?
Yeah.
So let's.
Let's formulate our test case where the greedy approach won't work.
Let's.
Let's talk about this, too.
To be too late.
To let's say I have five days of SUV, double duty.
And these are the.
A number of minutes that I need to spend on.
But tell me, what's the answer for this?
What is the number of minimum number of minutes that I can.
Spend on this particular.
Problematic.
So let's go with the deep rules that we applied to in the first three.
Let's take the minimum.
So here we can see minimum are two.
So the best what would be the best way to pick up the minimum?
Pick up the left most minimum moderate most minimum of course the right most minimum because in greedy
also if I'm trying to maximize something, if I if I pick up the let's see if I pick up the leftmost
to equal let's pick this up and what will happen the next window will start from this.
Then again, I will pick up something.
And then again I pick up this to.
Bye.
Okay.
Now, this is the next window.
No, let's pick up this.
Well, the leftmost minimum.
So again, we can see the answer here is.
Right.
But of course, this is not the correct answer.
Eight six will never be the answer.
And now let's see.
Let's go with the second debate approach, which is if if two minimums are there with the same value,
let's pick the right moment.
Because in the end, what I have to do is I have to pick up at least one element right from that particular
window.
Why not pick the right most element?
So let's pick the right element.
And from the second window again, let's pick the right mouse element.
And okay, so this is not the second window.
Yeah, my right.
The second window starts from here now because I pick that element.
And now let's pick the right most element, which is the last two.
So here the answer is two plus two.
Which is what?
But just think about it.
Is this the correct answer?
Of course, Garrity gave me this answer.
Aid, which is poor, but I don't think it's a correct answer.
Right.
We can even minimise this.
How?
What if I just pick the military?
It's just big.
The military.
And.
This I.
Let's say I have only picked up this tree.
I just.
I just went for the duty for the middle day.
So here we can see that if I go for the duty of the morality, this part discovered, this far discovered.
And this part is covered.
All windows of, say, Syria covered.
Well.
So this is why the grid does not work always, because there's always a case where grid will fail.
In dynamic programming, what happens is, how do I distinguish your ingredient?
I'll tell you this Somebody Day will in some of the lecture, but I notice let's focus on how to approach
this problem, because in every problem I'll be taking the example of a greedy approach.
So when when we'll be solving like hundreds of problems in the upcoming lectures, then you can easily
understand that why is greedy not working in ways only deep working some type of problems will.
And of course, then we'll generalize it in the end.
Great.
But as we saw, Grady does not work.
Right.
So let's.
Ignored.
Greedy to know what can be your dynamic programming approach.
I know we are just beginning this course and in the beginning of the course.
I just want to tell you one thing.
And just Gilbert Handy.
If you're stuck in a dynamic programming problem, always start with one one element.
The base case.
I just make a base case in the unit case.
Then add one element to it.
Think about it in.
It.
What should be done to add one element to it?
Think about it like, oh, what is the answer?
Right.
Basically start from a very small input.
So what was the unit case for the base thing?
If I want to be in an input here, it can be one.
Right.
But if there's only one and the.
Let's see, the value is something, etc..
Well, here.
What is the best answer any one of you can?
Think about it right on Saturdays.
Right.
But of course, in some problems it would be mentioned that led to and is greater than equal to treat
rate.
So let's take this constraint for us as well.
If it's mentioned specifically that end is greater than equal to three, that means the length of the
edit that's given to me.
The days that I have is greater than or equal to three.
Right?
So now what will be the base case?
The base case will be eight.
So let's take any values.
One, two, three.
Now, what stands out to you for this particular.
But what should be the answer for this?
Three, one, two, three.
Eight.
It should be fun.
If I pick this one.
That means I've covered the first window.
And of course this is Monza.
And what if I add?
One aptitude.
But what what should be the answer in this case?
So now here we can see we can have two answers.
The first answer is one, one.
I can pick these two ones.
So it's only two, or I can pick up the middle two.
It gives me total two as well.
Two if I pick up the middle, do I get this and I get this?
I cover all the windows of land.
Three windows.
So.
Yeah.
And then now what we do is we'll try to add another version to it and then we'll generalize it.
So always when we lose, starting with our dynamic programming problem, this is just an introduction.
So sometimes will feel like not I'm not a you know, you are not able to approach the problem in one
go, right?
Just remember one thing.
It is never about beauty.
There is no utility about enemy programming or what I.
It is not to worry at all about enemy programming, whatever the story was that is that will be available
which is an optimal substructure overlapping of problems dynamic programming state all that to I have
already.
Explained in the introduction to the program late.
So we should so will not go into the Tory part ever again.
So it's like mathematics.
Mathematics has of a relativity and a lot of exercises and lots of problems.
Right.
So similarly, we'll go we'll understand that in programming, more episodic, more problems on it because
there are so many varieties of problems involving dynamic programming.
So let's.
Let's figure out a good state of this dynamic programming problem.
Well, let's see.
Okay.
I'll take this input later, then.
And.
Okay, let's let's work on this and put.
Let's say I make a state which is, let's say, epiphany.
What is if I means let's see if I can be.
The minimum number of minutes.
Minimum number of minutes.
That's another case you saw there, a minimum number of.
I mean it.
Brent.
And as should be w duty.
Eddie from zero to I.
It's considered that means if the first elements of the area are considered.
Basically, if the if this this main square is considered, then tell me what's the best answer?
And.
But in this.
And what we're doing is we are trying we are trying to consider the current days duty as well.
Basically, what does it mean that if we if the duty ends on the current day, what is the best answer
for the first heading and the duty?
And.
On the current day.
So this is, of course, the first lecture.
And what I do is I go very slow in this.
They will go very slow here and I will solve this one.
I just don't consider this input.
Let's consider our input only, which was the input in which three D was not working.
Well.
Let's start with start with the first part and let's also remember what is ffi?
FFI is nothing but the minimum number of minutes.
Basically the answer if first the first few elements of the area are considered first elements basically,
and the duty ends on the current day, which is and ends on the instead of current, let's call it 88.
I do.
So tell me what I should be.
This is nothing but the indexing.
Let me index it quickly.
So I went to exit it very quickly and.
This is.
Yeah.
So let's talk about this.
Zero values.
So this is FFA.
So this is FFA adding let's call it daddy in which I will be filling the FFA values.
Well, so.
What is it for women's?
If the current dispute is considered, then what's the best possible answer?
If I talk about zero eight, which is the zero eight index, if I just consider the zero two days.
Really?
Only then what should be the answer?
Because here I am saying that a duty ends on the side.
That means I have to consider that I'd be in the duty.
Right?
So the answer should be too, because right now when I talk about zero, I'm not considering the rest
of the area.
I'm just saying starting first element is considered.
So let's not get confused.
Instead of zero, let's start zero by one.
Because it can be confusing to a lot.
Before the first day.
And if I go on the first day, I go for the duty.
Then what is the minimum amount of minutes?
It is too late now, guys.
Tell me.
If only.
It was off to size eight and I'm going on duty for the second day.
What should be my answer?
Just.
Just consider this as the input opportunity, which is mine, too.
And I'm going on the duty for the second.
I.
So here it is.
Totally.
The.
Answer again should reiterate Why should the answer we do?
Why should be the number of minutes prior?
Because right now my edit consists of only first two days.
As I said, it will start from one, right?
And it will go to late in the first two days, if I only consider.
Yeah.
If in the first two days, if I only considered the two days only right then the answer should be do
because I'm going on the second day.
Let's talk about the third.
So if I'm if I'm going on duty for the 38, that means now my input is kind of dead and I'm going on
the duty for the third day.
That means I have to include turning my.
Meetings in demand.
It means we should be there.
And if this is the only input that means the all the windows of Sisu discovered.
That means I cannot move forward.
Now let's consider the fourth input.
What about the fourth input right now?
Let's see.
I have this one, which is one which is 2 to 3 and two right now.
I'm going on the fourth day.
I'm seeing that I go on duty on the fourth trainer.
Tell me what the best answer for all these four values.
These when you do that, you are.
Tell me, guys, if I go.
Directly and floor today.
Is this possible?
Is it legal according to the problem?
No.
Right.
I cannot keep any consecutive treaties in my duty.
I hope you agree or you all agree with me on this point.
So this is the case.
If I go on the floor today and I include the full two days in demand so that I need to include the first
day or the second day or the third.
Eight and then include one editing you to edit include three.
Include one to include two three.
I include one three.
But look, I have to.
Include any of these possibilities.
So.
Just quickly.
Going over it again, which is.
Yeah, right.
So I have to either go on the first day or, you know, the third day.
That means if I try do on the first four today.
What what are the choices I have?
I have the first choice which is.
Let me change the pen.
Yeah.
The first choice is after the third day goes on the fourth today.
After the second day go on the fourth day or after the first day going to four eight.
If I directly go on the four, it is not possible.
So what I will say is I'm going on the fourth today and that I can go on the first day, then go on
the fourth today, go on the second day, then go on the fourth today, go on third day or then go on
the fourth day, basically.
If before going on the floor today.
What is this second last day that I went?
The second last day here can be the first day that can be.
Or the third it has to be this late.
We have to take any one of these.
Right.
Okay.
So tell me if I go on the first day and then I go on the fourth day.
Then what would be my answer?
My answer will be very simple, which is.
The answer for the whole area.
If I, if I burned on the first day, we just kept it one, if you remember.
So I'm saying I went on the phone, I went on the first day and then I'm going on the fourth today.
So it is equal to what you place.
Do right, which is good.
Now, secondly, if I'm on the second day and I'm going on the fourth today, because right now I'm
just trying to make connections, trying to find note options that I have that I'm doing on the food
today.
That was the second last day.
I can go on whatever is the second last day that I can go on.
The second last day that I can go on should be the minimum.
It should give me the minimum answer for the previous three.
Whatever the minimum answer for the previous area, I'll just add or update it.
And that will become the answer till for.
But let me quickly write this.
So again, if I go from 2 to 4, then it is to bless two, which is four again.
And if I go from 3 to 4, that means the second last days, three and the last days four.
That means it is two plus.
Three, it is equal to five.
Which of these is giving me minimum answer over here?
Which which particular transition is giving me minimum answer?
It is the transition from one or 2 to 48.
If I go from one or two because both of them have the same values, I'm going to the photo.
It will give me four.
Well, so I hope you got this case.
Why is the value four over here?
Because as that, I can come from 2 to 4 or I can come from 1 to 4.
This is important part.
These transitions are the only part about any programming rate.
So here what we are doing is we are trying to.
I note that what is a minimum what is a minimum month for the previous three positions?
Because after the previous revisions, I can come on the current rate.
Now let's talk about the fifth.
Okay.
So if I want to come on the fifth day, right, that means that I come from the fourth today or I go
after the third day or I go after the second day, but I cannot now consider the first day.
This is important.
Why?
Why can't I consider this transition 1 to 5?
Because.
If I consider the transition from 1 to 5, then these two, three and four will be left.
So I cannot leave three consecutive elements.
I cannot leave three consecutive days in middle age.
I have to I can't consider this transition, which is why I'm going from 1 to 5 that allows these fifth
and the second houses.
For us, it's not possible simply to go on the fifth day.
What I have is I have the value of which is two plus eight.
So okay, let's again take the same things last the fifth.
Let's signalised again before it.
Last is fifth, then second last week, and also with three and last days with the signals, they can
also be two eight.
So what are the values here?
If last is fifth, the second last days fourth then.
If.
Okay.
Do not tell me, everyone.
What's the best answer for the whole?
And that means was the best answer if I going forward today.
Basically.
What's the best answer if I am going on the floor today?
Of course.
For.
Eight.
It's not to remember this event going on 48 means the answer from the first date to the 48.
I'm just trying to make a transition here that I'm going on the floor today.
I don't care about where I am going on the floor today.
Rate for the fifth index or the fifth index.
I just want to know what the best answer that they can provide.
They look for the fourth.
It is four that 33 and the second is two.
So if I'm going on the fourth today.
I will take 4 minutes.
If I go on the third day, it will take 3 minutes.
And if I go on the second day, it will take 2 minutes.
Right.
So what is the minimum on them?
Many among them is eight.
So after this two, what I'll do is I'll simply add the current two, which is five to the 2 minutes
of 15.
So if I add them, it becomes.
Morgan, I hope you are seeing these transitions from where are these values coming and what these values
represents.
The most important part of forming a state is an important part in dynamic programming.
If you form a good state, then you can easily make previous connections.
So here, what's my state?
If I am going on the air today, if I'm going for the duty on the air today, then tell me what's the
best answer from the first day to the 88?
So here we have all the values.
Now the five came from two and four came from either one or two.
The is individual who is in Division one is in eight.
So some of you might be wondering, how can one be individual?
Why is the answer do it?
Because it tells from us due to the first.
What is the best answer?
They will not tell me what should be the answer for all the five days.
You did before that.
Okay, I'm going on the fifth day and the best answer is for as we have seen.
But it's not true, right?
What is never the best answer?
Why?
Because.
In.
In the last three days I can.
And on any of these serious raid it's not necessary to end on the 50 day.
What if I am on today?
If I are on the third day, I am.
I should not go to for the day.
I will also not go on the fifth day.
It's not necessary that I will always be ending on the fifth.
Today I can.
And on the last day, last minus one day or last -38.
So.
In the end, what we have is the answer has to be the minimum of all these last three values, because
at that I can finish the duty on the last day because it will think about all the windows of entry.
Or I can finish on screen as the audit at last, but I cannot finish on the fourth last day because
were trying to finish on the fourth last day.
That means these three days will be worthless.
But if these three days will be worthless, that it's not possible.
Eight.
I mean, it's not legal, basically.
So what is a minimum among all these three?
It is.
What we have got is what the relation we are trying to form.
How is this F of II being formed?
Okay, let's go back here.
Let's try to.
Formerly this FAA report.
This input to this is FFA, so FFA is nothing but it is equal to a minimum of F of I minus one.
That means the I minus one is my second last year.
If I'm going on the current d f of I minus two F of a minus three plus e is the number of minutes for
the current day.
Because I have to add the current day because that's what f I means if I'm ending on the current rate
for the first three days.
We know it's very simple.
The first three days will have those values only now the fourth day is minimum of these three values,
which is a minimum of 3 to 1 +18.
But it will be give me two eight.
And now for this particular.
So now for the fifth day, what I have is minimum of these three values, which is one plus two, which
is.
The aide.
Now, again, similarly repeating this further.
Let me quickly let me quickly fill this.
It is one plus two is three.
Now, again, here, I'll get one to which is four.
Now, minimum allows 3 to 2.
Plus one is the pool.
The minimum lost, it is three plus three, six, three, three plus two is five.
And minimum lost to this three plus one is for eight.
So these are the five values for all the ten days.
By using this simple recursive relation.
I hope.
Yeah.
Bernie Sanders.
Now what should be my final value?
It should be the minimum of last.
What if I'm ending on some of the last three days?
I don't.
I don't have to consider what the left it in our aid it's already solving.
Basically, I'm trying to make transitions here and.
Well, let me try and connect you to this solution.
The tree itself would save itself on this one.
Basically, this two came from the second that I went on.
The second day I heard it.
I went on the third day and then I went on the 41 plus one.
For this.
Again, I have identified for this.
Again, I have.
Third and sixth.
Now, this one comes from the 48.
And let me change the color.
This tree.
So here we have six or eight.
So this comes from a previous tree.
Well, this two comes from.
Again the minimum value.
And then this one comes from again, this minimum value to these are the fees and these are the answers
that are formed.
I understand this how we landed on this, because if you listen to not all the lectures.
Will be so explanatory because here I am trying to explain the basics of deep right, very basic.
There's nothing more basic than this.
And I was trying to I went on to do the gritty approach.
Then we tried to formulate our particular state and then we try to connect those states.
So it's starting.
We are starting then reprogramming you.
That's why it's taking.
I would.
So thank you, everyone.
This is an input in which you should try the theory and see what the answer that you are getting.
And in the next part will call it.
Thank you all.